At first, I don't have any knowledge about Python and Jupyter Notebook, as my background is not from IT. However, right now, after learning through 12 weeks in this course, I already understand why Python is a powerful tool in data science, since it can manipulate raw data and generate useful information from processed data, which will be useful for decision making process. In this course, we started by learning how to open Jupyter notebook from Anaconda launcher, then learn packages that are available in Python, which helps a lot during data cleaning and analysis. Python has a lot of built-in commands even without the package, but the packages provided more commands that helps to clean, visualize, and analyses the data, so it is essential to include them every time a new Python project is started. Some commands have their own way to be inputted before they were run, which is why it is important to read documentation and tutorial on how to run them properly. We were also given introduction to advanced machine learning model apart from linear and logistic regression, which helps to tackle more complex datasets and provides better result that simple machine learning. However, I felt Jupyter Notebook has its own limitation, since the order of execution may cause confusion to process the data. One notebook usually has their own purpose, means that different purposes may not reuse the whole notebook as its resources. Reproducibility is important in coding, since it ensures that a set of code can run to fulfill the desired output using the same type of data sources.

After working through Portfolio 1-3, I worked with Portfolio 4, which required us to find our own datasets and define our analysis purpose. We need to achieve our analysis purpose using all methods learned from the beginning until the end of Portfolio 3. In here, my analysis was to find out the effect of Covid-19 cases towards price of commodity at the year 2020. I felt it was interesting to learn the effect of pandemic due to Covid-19, since it was a hot topic back in 2020. Before the pandemic happened, there were a lot of economic theory that was proven able to explain how a certain economic event affected other events. Since Covid-19 was an unpredictable event, it was interesting to find out if the domino effect caused still can be explained by economic theory or it became a brand-new effect that defy the existing theory. The theory that I would like to test was the 'supply and demand' theory. I believed that if Covid-19 cases increased, the government would impose several restrictions that lead to the slowdown of economic activity, resulting in lesser supply of commodity in the market and ultimately increased the price. Since the data used was numerical data, this analysis utilized regression machine learning model. The results did show that there was a positive relationship between Covid-19 cases with price of commodity, indicating that the economic theory that I would like to test was still in place. However, I felt this analysis can be improved in the future since the quality of the model still needs some improvement.

After completing this course, it gave me a flavor how a data scientist's work looks like. it may quite challenging when it comes down to build the machine learning model, as it will be used to predict unseen/new data that was not used during the development of the model. Predicting also means that the output cannot be certainly true, so any error should be considered when reviewing the prediction result. I believed there is no absolute perfect machine learning model, which is the challenge that data scientist needs to tackle in real working situation. However, I found it interesting when it came to analyses the data, since deriving insight from historical data was like digging through the hole full of treasures before everybody know. We can find a lot of unexpected insight, since the data used for the same analysis may not provide the same outcome. This is the golden treasure that data analyst would like to gather. Raw sets of data that may be confusing, can be arranged into a meaningful form to derive insight on what happened in it. This may support any decision-making process, since a data is not an assumption made without strong analysis. I hope in the future, I could have a real-life project as a data analyst.